---
date: 2009-02-11
layout: post
title: 'Upcoming Conference: iatel'
---

My grad school is organizing a conference next summer on e-learning --
technology enhanced learning for those from across the ocean. You might think
"yawn! yet another conference!", but this one is special:

To begin with, it is focused on interdisciplinary approaches. [My
session][session2] looks at an interesting question we face both in
recommender systems and e-learning: What does *actually* happen when we put
adaptive or learning systems into place? Example: What if the sheer presence
of a recommendation pushes people to like an item. And that fact is then fed
into the "smart" system which will then predict similar items on the (often
hidden) assumption that the user's taste is independent of the recommender
system. This clearly is a cross-disciplinary issue, and one of the more simple
one we want to address. If you think of adding "smart" systems to a teaching
context, people might start to learn from the learners, mediated through the
system. We will focus on the question whether that is a smart idea and if so,
how it shall be implemented. The [other sessions][sessions] have similar
striking questions answerable only by a group of researchers from different
fields.

Second, the conference will be different in style. Only few presentations and
much focussed discussion. That is because of a simple observation: We want to
bring people together to work on questions that do not have a presentable
solution just yet. The high hopes are to change that during the conference.

So, if that all sounds great to you, a researcher, Phd student or practicioner
from any of the involved fields, head over to the [website][site] and learn
how to apply for the conference. Hope to see you there!

[session2]: http://www.gkel.tu-darmstadt.de/iatel/content/session-2-learning-learners
[sessions]: http://www.gkel.tu-darmstadt.de/iatel/content/topic
[site]: http://www.gkel.tu-darmstadt.de/iatel/
