---
date: 2010-01-18
layout: post
title: Machine Teaching -- A Machine Learning Approach to Technology Enhanced Learning
categories:
- Publication
---

This is my PhD thesis, completed in 2009 and available on the official URL:Â [urn:nbn:de:tuda-tuprints-21090](http://nbn-resolving.de/urn/resolver.pl?urn=urn:nbn:de:tuda-tuprints-21090)


## Abstract

>Many applications of Technology Enhanced Learning are based on strong
assumptions: Knowledge needs to be standardized, structured and most of all
externalized into learning material that preferably is annotated with meta-data
for efficient re-use. A vast body of valuable knowledge does not meet these
assumptions, including informal knowledge such as experience and intuition that
is key to many complex activities. We notice that knowledge, even if not
standardized, structured and externalized, can still be observed through its
application. We refer to this observable knowledge as Practiced Knowledge. We
propose a novel approach to Technology Enhanced Learning named Machine Teaching
to convey this knowledge: Machine Learning techniques are used to extract
machine models of Practiced Knowledge from observational data. These models are
then applied in the learner's context for his support. We identify two important
subclasses of machine teaching, General and Detailed Feedback Machine Teaching.
General Feedback Machine Teaching aims to provide the learner with a
"grade-like" numerical rating of his work. This is a direct application of
supervised machine learning approaches. Detailed Feedback Machine Teaching aims
to provide the learner with in-depth support with respect to his activities. An
analysis showed that a large subclass of Detailed Feedback Machine Teaching
applications can be addressed through adapted recommender systems technology.
The ability of the underlying machine learning techniques to capture structure
and patterns in the observational data is crucial to the overall applicability
of Machine Teaching. Therefore, we study the feasibility of Machine Teaching
from a machine learning perspective. Following this goal, we evaluate the
General Feedback Machine Teaching approach using state-of-the-art machine
learning techniques: The exemplary Machine Teaching system is sought to provide
the learner with quality estimations of his writing as judged by an online
community. The results obtained in this evaluation are supportive of the
applicability of Machine Teaching to this domain. To facilitate Detailed
Feedback Machine Teaching, we present a novel matrix factorization model and
algorithm. In addition to addressing the needs of Machine Teaching, it is also a
contribution to the recommender systems field as it facilitates ranking
estimation. An Evaluation in a Detailed Feedback Machine Teaching scenario for
software engineers supports the feasibility of Machine Teaching in that domain.
We therefore conclude that machine learning models capable of capturing
important aspects of practiced knowledge can be found in both, General and
Detailed Feedback Machine Teaching. Machine Teaching does not assume the
knowledge to be externalized, but to be observable and therefore adds another
body of knowledge to Technology Enhanced Learning not amenable to traditional
Technology Enhanced Learning approaches.

[Download PDF]({{site.url}}/files/uploads/2012/04/Thesis-Markus-Weimer.pdf)


## BibText

    @phdthesis{tubiblio42147,
               month = {March},
               title = {Machine Teaching -- A Machine Learning Approach to Technology Enhanced Learning},
              school = {TU Darmstadt},
              author = {Markus Weimer},
                year = {2010},
                 url = {http://tubiblio.ulb.tu-darmstadt.de/42147/}
    }
