---
date: 2011-03-16
layout: post
title: Back to CS 101
---

So, you read [Alex' post](http://blog.smola.org/post/1130198570/hashing-for-collaborative-filtering) on applying the hashing trick to matrix factorization or [our paper](http://jmlr.csail.mit.edu/proceedings/papers/v9/karatzoglou10a/karatzoglou10a.pdf) on the subject and thought you'd just go ahead and implement it. And instead of computing two hashes, one for the Rademacher function ( [latex]\sigma[/latex] in the paper) and one for the index in the storage array, you compute just one and use the sign of the hash as [latex]\sigma[/latex] and the absolute value for the index. Which looks something like this in Java:

    
    double[] storage; // The underlying storage array
    int hash(int index){ // The hash function used
      [...]
    }
    double get(int index){
      int realIndex = hash(index);
      return Math.signum((double)realIndex) * storage[Math.abs(realIndex) % storage.length];
    }


Looks innocent enough, if a bit wordy. However, once every 2^32 times, it will go wrong, horribly. And that is when the hash function returns the value -2^31. In this case the Math.abs() call returns -2^31, as there is no representation of 2^31 in a signed 32Bit integer, which is [documented behavior](http://download.oracle.com/javase/6/docs/api/java/lang/Math.html#abs(int)). But who reads documentation anyway? ;-) Thankfully, [Andrew](http://a1k0n.net/) reminded me when the `ArrayIndexOutOfBoundsException` hit complaining about a negative index.

Luckily, a simple fix is available:

    
    [...]
    double get(int index){
      int realIndex = hash(index);
      return Math.signum((double)realIndex) * storage[Math.abs(realIndex % storage.length)];
    }
    [...]


This assumes, of course, that the modulo operator works for negative operants, which, thankfully, [it does](http://java.sun.com/docs/books/jls/third_edition/html/expressions.html#15.17.3). Also, if storage.length is bigger than 2^31, this will again fail. However, this is impossible in Java as arrays are bound to sizes expressed as signed 32Bit integers, which limits them in size to 2^31-1.
