---
date: 2012-04-06
layout: post
title: 'WWW 2012 Tutorial: New Templates for Scalable Data Analysis'
categories:
- Publication
---

Together with [Alex Smola](http://alex.smola.org) and [Amr
Ahmed](http://www.cs.cmu.edu/~amahmed/), I'll give a tutorial at the World Wide
Web Conference on _New Templates for Scalable Data Analysis_. You can find the
most current when and where on the [WWW
program](http://www2012.wwwconference.org/program/tutorials/).


## Abstract
> Scalable data analysis has come a long way since the introduction of the
MapReduce paradigm a decade ago. In this tutorial we present algorithms for
synchronous and asynchronous data processing. They are are capable of dealing
with the amounts of data typically available on the internet.

> We give a brief description of the problems one faces when performing scalable
machine learning on the internet. To motivate matters we provide a number of
scenarios from spam filtering, advertising and collaborative filtering. This is
followed by an extensive discussion of current and novel synchronous data
processing techniques. In particular we emphasize how insights from systems
research and databases can be used to achieve significant improvements both in
terms of expressiveness and in terms of efficiency of the deployed algorithms.

> This is followed by a description of asynchronous data analysis and inference
methods. The latter are particularly necessary whenever the estimation problem
requires the use of a significant number of latent variables. This includes
cases such as clustering, topic models, or graph factorization. We provide an
ample number of motivating examples and applications, ranging from user
profiling to the analysis of communication networks. Special emphasis is placed
on approximations needed to scale algorithms to hundreds of millions of users
and billions of documents.

##  Downloads
  * [Abstract in the WWW proceedings (PDF)]({{site.url}}/files/uploads/2012/04/www-tutorial.pdf)
  * Part I: Machine Learning and Systems: [PDF]({{site.url}}/files/uploads/2012/04/1-ML-and-Systems.pdf)
  * Part II: Synchronized Patterns: [PDF]({{site.url}}/files/uploads/2012/04/2-Synchronous.pdf)
  * Part III: Distributed Latent Variable Models: [PDF]({{site.url}}/files/uploads/2012/04/3-Distributed-Latent-Variable.pdf)
  * Part IV: User Modeling and Graph Factorization: [PDF](http://alex.smola.org/talks/www2012_4.pdf)
