---
layout: post
title: "Vamsa: Automated Provenance Tracking in Data Science Scripts"
categories: Publication
---

Mohammad Hossein Namaki, Avrilia Floratou, Fotis Psallidas, Subru Krishnan, Ashvin Agrawal, Yinghui Wu, Yiwen Zhu, **Markus Weimer**

## Abstract

> There has recently been a lot of ongoing research in the areas of fairness,
> bias and explainability of machine learning (ML) models due to the
> self-evident or regulatory requirements of various ML applications. We make
> the following observation: All of these approaches require a robust
> understanding of the relationship between ML models and the data used to train
> them. In this work, we introduce the ML provenance tracking problem: the
> fundamental idea is to automatically track which columns in a dataset have
> been used to derive the features/labels of an ML model. We discuss the
> challenges in capturing such information in the context of Python, the most
> common language used by data scientists.
>
> We then present Vamsa, a modular system that extracts provenance from Python
> scripts without requiring any changes to the users' code. Using 26K real data
> science scripts, we verify the effectiveness of Vamsa in terms of coverage,
> and performance. We also evaluate Vamsa's accuracy on a smaller subset of
> manually labeled data. Our analysis shows that Vamsa's precision and recall
> range from 90.4% to 99.1% and its latency is in the order of milliseconds for
> average size scripts. Drawing from our experience in deploying ML models in
> production, we also present an example in which Vamsa helps automatically
> identify models that are affected by data corruption issues.

[Download PDF]({{site.url}}/files/pub/2020/2020-KDD-Vamsa.pdf), [Arxiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/2001.01861), [ACM](https://dl.acm.org/doi/abs/10.1145/3394486.3403205)

## BibTeX

```bibtex
@inproceedings{10.1145/3394486.3403205,
  author = {Namaki, Mohammad Hossein and Floratou, Avrilia and Psallidas, Fotis and Krishnan, Subru and Agrawal, Ashvin and Wu, Yinghui and Zhu, Yiwen and Weimer, Markus},
  title = {Vamsa: Automated Provenance Tracking in Data Science Scripts},
  year = {2020},
  isbn = {9781450379984},
  publisher = {Association for Computing Machinery},
  address = {New York, NY, USA},
  url = {https://doi.org/10.1145/3394486.3403205},
  doi = {10.1145/3394486.3403205},  
  booktitle = {Proceedings of the 26th ACM SIGKDD International Conference on Knowledge Discovery & Data Mining},
  pages = {1542–1551},
  numpages = {10},
  keywords = {data science, provenance, machine learning},
  location = {Virtual Event, CA, USA},
  series = {KDD '20}
}
```
