---
layout: post
title: "Home Assistant: Housing the Raspberry Pi in an Argon One M.2 case"
categories: HomeAutomation
excerpt_separator: <!--more-->
---

I am a fan of the [Argon One M.2 case][aone] raspberry Pi case. I finally got my
hands on one for the Raspberry Pi which runs my Home Assistant. The transfer
wasn't entirely straight forward. The notes below might help the next person
doing this.

<!--more-->

## Create a backup

The first step is to create a backup of your Home Assistant. You will need this
later after the new install.

## Enable USB boot

The SSD in the Argon One case is connected via USB. Since recently, the
Raspberry Pi can boot off of USB devices. You *might* have to update the eeprom
of your Pi to make this work. Mine already had the newest version. You *will*
have to change the settings of the Pi to boot from USB. I used a MicroSD card
with Raspberry Pi OS on it for this. The tool `raspi-config` can do this.

[aone]: https://www.argon40.com/argon-one-m-2-case-for-raspberry-pi-4.html

## Install Home Assistant

I used a USB A - USB A cable to connect the SSD portion of the case to my PC.
The Raspberry Pi images can be used to install Home Assistant as if it was a
MicroSD card. So far so easy.

## Restore the backup

When booting this new Home Assistant installation for the first time from the
SSD, do not create a username and password. Instead, use the link at the bottom
to upload the backup created in step one. I had no feedback whether this worked
or not. But when I opened the Home Assistant UI after a few minutes, everything
was like it was at the time of the backup.

## Quiet the fan

The Argon One case has a fan. That is great, but noisy. On Raspbian OS, you can
just install the software for the case to regulate it. On Home Assistant, I
found this more challenging. Here is what worked for me:

1. Install the [HassOS I2C Configurator](i2c). I gave it `root` rights and
   marked it to start at boot.
2. Reboot the Pi.
3. Reboot the Pi. (Yes, twice. The logs of the add-on said so)
4. Install the [Fan hat add-on][fan]. I configured it to start at boot.
5. Reboot the Pi.
6. Reboot the Pi. (This time, I did it just for good measure.)

[i2c]: https://community.home-assistant.io/t/add-on-hassos-i2c-configurator/264167
[fan]: https://github.com/Misiu/argon40
